# Build and deploy apps to Kubernetes engine

## Prerequisites

1. A working Docker installation – https://store.docker.com/editions/community/docker-ce-desktop-mac
2. Google Cloud SDK `gcloud` – https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/quickstart-macos
3. Kubectl – `brew install kubectl`
4. Cluster credentials – In the Google Cloud Platform console, navigate to "Kubernetes engine" > "Clusters" and select "Connect" from the kebab menu.

## Installing

### Option 1 – prebuilt

1. Ensure you have `~/.bin` directory or similar that is in your `$PATH`
2. Install KD:

- When using an Apple M1+ Mac run: `rm -f ~/.bin/kd && curl -L $(curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/voormedia/kd/releases/latest | grep browser_download_url | grep darwin_arm64 | cut -d '"' -f 4) -o ~/.bin/kd && chmod +x ~/.bin/kd`
- When using an Intel Mac run: `rm -f ~/.bin/kd && curl -L $(curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/voormedia/kd/releases/latest | grep browser_download_url | grep darwin_amd64 | cut -d '"' -f 4) -o ~/.bin/kd && chmod +x ~/.bin/kd`

3. Install Google Cloud credential helper:

- When using an Apple M1+ Mac run: `curl -L https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/docker-credential-gcr/releases/download/v2.1.0/docker-credential-gcr_darwin_arm64-2.1.0.tar.gz | tar -xzC ~/.bin docker-credential-gcr && chmod +x ~/.bin/docker-credential-gcr && docker-credential-gcr configure-docker`
- When using an Intel Mac run: `curl -L https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/docker-credential-gcr/releases/download/v2.1.0/docker-credential-gcr_darwin_amd64-2.1.0.tar.gz | tar -xzC ~/.bin docker-credential-gcr && chmod +x ~/.bin/docker-credential-gcr && docker-credential-gcr configure-docker`

### Option 2 – from source

1. Make sure you have a working `go` installation
2. Build KD from source: `go install github.com/voormedia/kd`
3. Install Google Cloud credential helper: `curl -L https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/docker-credential-gcr/releases/download/v1.4.3/docker-credential-gcr_darwin_amd64-1.4.3.zip | funzip > ~/.bin/docker-credential-gcr && chmod +x ~/.bin/docker-credential-gcr && docker-credential-gcr configure-docker`

## SSH forwarding

SSH keys can be forwarded if an SSH agent is running. This is the case by
default on macOS. SSH keys usually need to be added to the agent manually. For
example, to expose the SSH key `id_ed25519` to `kd`, execute the following:

`ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_ed25519`

In case your .ssh folder does not contain the file `id_ed25519` but `id_rsa`, use the following command: 

`ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_rsa`

To make sure this key is always exposed, add the following line to `~/.zshrc`:

`ssh-add -q ~/.ssh/id_ed25519`

If you have the file `id_rsa`, add the following line to `~/.zshrc`:

`ssh-add -q ~/.ssh/id_rsa`

In a `Dockerfile`, the SSH keys are **only** available for `RUN` commands if they opt in:

`RUN --mount=type=ssh ...`

## Best practices for deploying

### Step 1 – adjust your app

- Configure the app to run with an application server (e.g. with `puma` for Rails).
- Make your app log to stdout/stderr instead of log files. Preferably in Google cloud compatible JSON.

### Step 2 – write a Dockerfile

- Make sure your image is small. Use a two-step build process. Use `.dockerignore` to exclude unused files.
- See https://github.com/voormedia/docker-base-images/tree/master/_examples for examples.

### Step 3 – configure deployment

- Run `kd init` and input the project details.
- Review the generated configuration and adjust where necessary.

### Step 4 – configure cloud services

- Create a PostgreSQL user and database if necessary. Use the same naming conventions as generated by `kd` in step 2. Create a secret from the service account key.

### Step 5 – deploy

- Use `kd deploy` to deploy to a target.
